SPEAKER: "Multiple components
match node with tagname."
When you encounter
this error, it
means two or more components
use the same element name.
The element selectors of all
components within an NgModule
must be unique, because when
there's a name collision,
Angular has no way of
knowing which component
to render in the template.
Let's take a look at a simple
reproduction and quick fix.
In the code, we have
an icon component
with a selector
name of mat-icon.
The component is then declared
with that selector in the app
component template.
But when we attempt to run
the app, we get the error
"Multiple components match
node with tagname mat-icon."
Your IDE should be able to
catch the error in advance.
Notice how when we hover
over the red underline,
we get the feedback that
more than one component
matched on this element.
In addition, it tells us exactly
which classes are in conflict.
In this case, the mat-icon
and the icon component.
Alternatively, we can debug
from the error in the browser
console.
Find the link to the
template in the stack trace
to determine which line
of code caused the issue.
Then we need to figure out
which two components share
the same selector.
The first technique you
might try is a global search.
In VS Code, use Control-Shift-F
to bring up the Search bar
and look for any component files
that use that selector name.
If you have two conflicting
components in your code base,
simply rename one of them.
However, in this demo,
we only have one match.
And that means the collision
is caused by a third party
library.
Because you likely
don't have control
over the name of a component
in a third party library,
your only option is to
rename your local component.
Notice how when we rename
mat-icon to app-icon the error
goes away.
Now, there are a couple
of best practices
that we can follow to prevent
this error from ever happening.
Selectors should always be
formatted in kebab case.
Even though it is possible
to use a single word
as a selector, it's
generally better
to use a consistent set of
characters to prefix it.
When you use the Angular CLI,
it will prefix your component
names with "app" by default.
This convention makes
it easy to distinguish
which components are
local to your code base and
which components are external,
like Material, which
are prefixed with "mat."
Another best practice
that can help here
is one component per file.
When you have one
component per file,
the file name
generally corresponds
to the selector
name, which makes
it more difficult to end up
with two components in your code
base that share a selector name.
Let's go ahead and recap.
When you encounter the
"Multiple components match node
with tagname error," you
have a name collision
between two or more
components which will likely
require you to change
the selector name in one
of your local components.
Make sure to follow best
practices to avoid issues
like this, and refer to
the Angular style guide
in the official documentation
for additional details.